docs/api-setup.md, before:

---
id: api-setup
title: API Setup
---

This page will show you how to setup API requests with Postman and Paw. The main goal here is to setup OAuth2 authorization. 

## Applications for API Requests
- [Postman](#initial-setup-with-postman)
- [Paw](#initial-setup-with-paw)

## OAuth2 Notes

- The application only supports `Authorization Code` and `Implicit Grant` authorization methods. It's suggested to use an `implicit` grant for native apps, as they are inherently trusted. 
- In a real application, the callback URL should have a specific scope that's not just `http://`, i.e., `brickhack-ios://` (for BrickHack's iOS application). However Postman would really be confused with that scheme, so for local development, it's not advised.
- Client credentails must be sent in the body.
- Browser authorization is currently not supported, at least in Postman. Not sure why! If you discover a reason, please open an Issue on the [hackathon manager](https://github.com/codeRIT/hackathon-manager) repo.

## Initial Setup with Postman

This guide assumes you have already setup an admin account on a local Hackathon Manager install. For more details on this, see the [main README](https://github.com/codeRIT/hackathon-manager#local-development).

In Hackathon Manager, sign in to your admin account and click "Manage". Then, at the bottom left of the sidebar, click the **Doorkeeper** tab.

<img src="assets/api-setup/doorkeeper.png" width="300px" />

On this screen, click "New Application". 

Name it whatever you wish. Set the Redirect URI to `http://localhost:3000/apply`, uncheck `Confidential`, and set a scope to `main`. Then, click `Submit`.

> Note: There is [a bug](https://github.com/doorkeeper-gem/doorkeeper/issues/1307) in the current version of doorkeeper (5.0), where if you do not put a scope, all OAuth requests fail. This scope can be anything as long as it is not empty.

Now, go to Postman and configure the initial request as follows:

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman1.png" width="500px" />

Then, click the `Get Access Token` button.

On this screen, fill out the information but with your own keys from the image above.

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman2.png" width="500px" />

You should get a popup with the BrickHack sign in screen. Type in your admin credentials and log in.

On the next screen, select `Authorize`:

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman3.png" width="500px" />

You should see this resulting screen. On here, select `Use Token`:

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman4.png" width="600px" />

That's it! Now you can make authorized requests at whatever permission level your account has.

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman5.png" />


## Initial Setup with Paw

The process is very similar to above. To save time, here is a screenshot of the `auth` config screen:

<img src="assets/api-setup/paw1.png" />

To reset your login, remove the dynamic fields in `Refresh Token` and `Token`. If your web login is still cached, try clearing cookies (`Paw > Web Views > Clear Cookies`) and Cache (`Paw > Web Views > Clear Cache`).

Commit message:

docs: Reword API introduction to be more friendly
- Clarifies what Postman and Paw are, with links to their product pages
- Notes that this process works for remote instances as well, not just localhost
- Removed trailing whitespace and extra newlines
- Fixed a single typo

docs/api-setup.md, after:

---
id: api-setup
title: Setup Postman/Paw for API Testing
---

This page will show you how to simulate API requests with [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) or [Paw](https://paw.cloud/).

These programs allow you to run API requests (`GET`, `POST`, and so on) in an isolated environment, which is much easier to debug in compared to an iOS or Android app, for example.

In order to make requests in either Postman or Paw, you need to setup _OAuth 2 authorization_, as in Hackathon Manager, each request needs to be authorized first. This guide discusses how to enable OAuth 2 for these apps.

This guide assumes you have already setup an admin account on a local Hackathon Manager install. For more details on this, see the [main README](https://github.com/codeRIT/hackathon-manager#local-development).

> To make API requests on a live/remote instance, simply replace `localhost` in all following commands with your Hackathon Manager's URL.

Select an app below to jump directly to its guide:

- [Connecting with Postman](#initial-setup-with-postman)
- [Connecting with Paw](#initial-setup-with-paw)

## OAuth2 Notes

- The application only supports `Authorization Code` and `Implicit Grant` authorization methods. It's suggested to use an `implicit` grant for native apps, as they are inherently trusted.
- In a real application, the callback URL should have a specific scope that's not just `http://`, i.e., `brickhack-ios://` (for BrickHack's iOS application). However Postman would really be confused with that scheme, so for local development, it's not advised.
- Client credentials must be sent in the body.
- Browser authorization is currently not supported, at least in Postman. Not sure why! If you discover a reason, please open an Issue on the [hackathon manager](https://github.com/codeRIT/hackathon-manager) repo.

## Connecting with Postman

In Hackathon Manager, sign in to your admin account and click "Manage". Then, at the bottom left of the sidebar, click the **Doorkeeper** tab.

<img src="assets/api-setup/doorkeeper.png" width="300px" />

On this screen, click `New Application`.

Name it whatever you wish. Set the Redirect URI to `http://localhost:3000/apply`, uncheck `Confidential`, and set a scope to `main`. Then, click `Submit`.

> Note: There is [a bug](https://github.com/doorkeeper-gem/doorkeeper/issues/1307) in the current version of doorkeeper (5.0), where if you do not put a scope, all OAuth requests fail. This scope can be anything as long as it is not empty.

Now, go to Postman and configure the initial request as follows:

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman1.png" width="500px" />

Then, click the `Get Access Token` button.

On this screen, fill out the information but with your own keys from the image above.

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman2.png" width="500px" />

You should get a popup with the BrickHack sign in screen. Type in your admin credentials and log in.

On the next screen, select `Authorize`:

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman3.png" width="500px" />

You should see this resulting screen. On here, select `Use Token`:

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman4.png" width="600px" />

That's it! Now you can make authorized requests at whatever permission level your account has.

<img src="assets/api-setup/postman5.png" />

## Connecting with Paw

The process is very similar to above. To save time, here is a screenshot of the `auth` config screen:

<img src="assets/api-setup/paw1.png" />

To reset your login, remove the dynamic fields in `Refresh Token` and `Token`. If your web login is still cached, try clearing cookies (`Paw > Web Views > Clear Cookies`) and Cache (`Paw > Web Views > Clear Cache`).
